According to the Huffington Post, cats typically sleep for 12 to 16 hours a day.
When cats hit you with retracted claws, they're playing, not attacking.
They are crepuscular, which means that they are most active at dawn and dusk.
As is the case with kids, if you keep your cat active during the day, he will sleep better at night.
If you're not free-feeding, you can also help your cat get a good night's sleep by providing her with a substantial evening meal.
Cats are fastidious creatures about their "bathroom." If you have more than one cat, you should have one litter box for each.
Cats learn to manipulate humans with their meows — some even develop a cry like a baby!
Meowing is a behavior that cats developed exclusively to communicate with people.
Cats mark you as their territory when they rub their faces and bodies against you, as they have scent glands in those areas.
Kneading — which some people refer to as "making biscuits" — is a sign of contentment and happiness. Cats knead their mothers when they are nursing to stimulate the let-down of milk.
Cats often attack your ankles when they are bored.
When dogs wag their tails, they may be expressing happiness. But this is not the case for cats! When your cat wags her tail, it's her way of warning you that you are getting on her last nerve.
Cats live longer when they stay indoors.
Cats walk like camels and giraffes: they move both of their right feet first, then move both of their left feet. No other animals walk this way.
Cats make very little noise when they walk around. The thick, soft pads on their paws allow them to sneak up on their prey — or you!
Female cats have the ability to get pregnant when they are only 4 months old!
Some cat facts are, well, a little gross. For instance, these animals do not have an incest taboo, so they may choose to mate with their brothers and sisters.
Kittens can be spayed or neutered when they are only eight weeks old. If possible, these procedures should be performed in the first 5 months of your cat's life.
Male cats who have been fixed need fewer calories to maintain their weight.
Cats were first brought to the Americas in colonial times to get rid of rodents.
It's not uncommon to see cats in food stores in big cities as a form of free — and adorable — pest control.
A group of kittens is called a kindle.
Collective nouns for adult cats include clowder, clutter, glaring and pounce.
Cats are believed to be the only mammals who don't taste sweetness.
A green cat was born in Denmark in 1995. Some people believe that high levels of copper in the water pipes nearby may have given his fur a verdigris effect.
Cats will refuse an unpalatable food to the point of starvation.
White cats with blue eyes are prone to deafness.
Some cats are ambidextrous, but 40 percent are either left- or right-pawed.
Male cats are more likely to be left-pawed, while female cats are more likely to be right-pawed.
Cats can spend up to a third of their waking hours grooming.
Your cat's grooming process stimulates blood flow to his skin, regulates his body temperature and helps him relax.
Cats groom other cats — and sometimes people — in a ritual called allogrooming.
Cats may yawn as a way to end a confrontation with another animal. Think of it as their "talk to the hand" gesture.
Each cat's nose print is unique, much like human fingerprints.
Cats dislike citrus scents.
Certain cats go crazy for foods you would not expect, like olives, potato chips and the hops in beer.
Some cats love the smell of chlorine.
Many cats like to lick their owner's freshly washed hair.
Cats like to sleep on things that smell like their owners, like their pillows and dirty laundry (ick!).
Cats also love to sleep in laundry baskets, because they appear to be a hiding place with peep holes.
Cats use their whiskers to "feel" the world around them in an effort to determine which small spaces they can fit into. A cat's whiskers are generally about the same width as its body.
Whiskers are also good indicators of a cat's mood. When a cat is scared, he put his whiskers back. But when a cat is in hunting mode, he puts his whiskers forward.
Cats have whiskers on the backs of their front legs, as well.
Kittens in the same litter can have more than one father. This is because the female cat releases multiple eggs over the course of a few days when she is in heat.
Cats dream, just like people do.
Cats have the largest eyes relative to their head size of any mammal.
Cats' rough tongues can lick a bone clean of any shred of meat.
Cats can be toilet-trained.
Cats have 230 bones, while humans only have 206.
Cats' collarbones don't connect to their other bones, as these bones are buried in their shoulder muscles.
A cat's average lifespan increased by a year over the span of time between 2002 and 2012, according to a study by Banfield Pet Hospital.
Spaying and neutering can extend a cat's life. The Banfield Pet Hospital study found that neutered males live an average of 62 percent longer than unneutered cats and spayed females live an average of 39 percent longer than unspayed cats.
Male cats who trying to get to a female in heat can show very bizarre behavior — they've even been known to slide down chimneys!
Cats can jump up to six times their length.
Cats use their long tails to balance themselves when they are jumping or walking along narrow ledges.
If your cat approaches you with a straight, almost vibrating tail, this means that she is extremely happy to see you.
A cat with a question-mark-shaped tail is asking, "Want to play?"
Your cat drapes its tail over another cat, your dog or you as a symbol of friendship.
Most world languages have a similar word to describe the "meow" sound.
Every Scottish Fold cat in the world can trace its heritage back to the first one, which was found in Scotland in the 1960s, says Cheryl Hogan, a Scottish Fold breeder and the committee chair for the breed at The International Cat Association (TICA).
Hissing is defensive, not aggressive, says Layla Morgan Wilde, a cat behavior expert and the founder of Cat Wisdom 101. "It's an expression of fear, stress or discomfort of a threatened cat communicating 'stay away,'" she says.
If cats are fighting, the cat that is hissing is the more vulnerable one, says Wilde.
When a cat flops over and exposes his belly, it's not always an invitation for a belly rub. "This is probably the most common cause of people getting scratched by a cat," Wilde says. A cat performs this action when he is relaxed and showing trust.
A housecat's genome is 95.6 percent tiger, and they share many behaviors with their jungle ancestors, says Wilde. These behaviors include scent marking by scratching, prey play, prey stalking and pouncing, chinning and territorial scent and urine marking.
Cats have a unique "vocabulary" with their owner — each cat has a different set of vocalizations, purrs and behaviors.
If you can't find your cat, you should look in a box or a bag, as these are some of their favorite hiding spots!
Cats are very fussy about their water bowls, and some prefer to ignore their bowls entirely in favor of drinking from the sink faucet.
Thieving behavior is not uncommon among cats. They will often grab objects like stuffed animals, feather dusters and other things that remind them of prey.
When your cat sticks his butt in your face, he is doing so as a gesture of friendship.
Cats perceive people as big, hairless cats, says Wilde.
Some 700 million feral cats live in the United States, and many shelters run trap-neuter-release programs to stem the population growth.
Cat breeders are called catteries.
Only about half of the cats in the world respond to the scent of catnip.
It's believed that catnip produces an effect similar to LSD or marijuana in cats.
The effects of nepetalactone — the chemical in catnip that can makes cats crazy — wears off within 15 minutes, and won't surface again for a few hours, even if your cat remains in sniffing distance.
Male cats are the most sensitive to catnip, while kittens under 3 months old have no response at all.
People often think that they've stumbled over a purebred as a stray or in a shelter, but Hogan says that this is very uncommon. "Ninety-nine times out of 100 what you have found on the street will not be purebred anything," she says. "Very seldom do breeders sell kittens that are not already spayed or neutered," as purebred cats need to meet very strict standards.
Cats can drink sea water in order to survive.
Some cats can swim.
Cats have contributed to the extinction of 33 different species.
Two hundred feral cats prowl the park at Disneyland, doing their part to control rodents — the ones who don't wear funny outfits and speak in squeaky voices.
There are about 88 million pet cats in the United States, which makes them the most popular pet in the country!
Cats have an extra organ that allows them to taste scents on the air, which is why your cat stares at you with her mouth open from time to time.
Stubbs, a 17-year-old orange tabby, is mayor of the historic district of Talkeetna, Alaska.
President Bill Clinton's cat, Socks, was a media darling during the Clinton administration and was said to receive more letters than the President himself.
Cat videos are so popular online that there is an annual film festival that features the best ones.
In August 2013, 11,000 people attended the Internet Cat Video Festival at the Minnesota State Fair.
"Surprised Kitty," which is the most popular cat video in history, has been viewed more than 65 million times on YouTube.
The first Internet cat video, "Puppy Vs. Cat," was initially uploaded in 2006.
A cat's purr can be self-soothing, as these animals makes this noise when they are ill or distressed.
A cat's purr vibrates at a frequency of 25 to 150 hertz, which is the same frequency at which muscles and bones repair themselves.
The first known cat video was recorded in 1894.
Maria Assunta left her cat, Tomasso, her entire $13 million fortune when she died in 2011.
Cats have nearly twice the amount of neurons in their cerebral cortex as dogs.
A cat's learning style is about the same as a 2- to 3-year-old child.
There is an urban legend that Sir Isaac Newton invented the cat door, but in fact they were mentioned in literature centuries before he was born.
A house cat could beat superstar runner Usain Bolt in the 200 meter dash.
Cats are nearsighted, but their peripheral vision and night vision are much better than those of humans.
Though cats can notice the fast movements of their prey, it often seems to them that slow-moving objects are actually stagnant.
Cats have up to 100 different vocalizations.
According to Wilde, a slow blink is a "kitty kiss." This movement shows contentment and trust.
The jury is out – Americans love cats more than dogs! While there are more US households with pet dogs, there are way more cats than dogs!
A 2019 survey of US households found there to be around 94.2 million pet cats, while there were only 89.7 million pet dogs.
A male cat is called a Tom. A female cat can be a Molly or a Queen.
The saying, "A cat always lands on its feet," isn't just an old myth. Cats have a natural ability to land on their feet called the "righting reflex."
The higher the fall, the more likely a cat is to survive it. If a cat falls from a lower height, say less than 7 stories high, then it's actually more likely to be injured!
There are many ways to refer to a group of cats. The collective noun for wild cats is "a destruction of cats." Regular house cats are generally called a "clowder of cats."
There are also quite a few ways to refer to a group of kittens. The most commonly used collective noun for kittens is "litter of kittens." They can also be called an "intrigue of kittens" due to their curious nature.
It's been scientifically proven that cat owners are healthier people. Patting a cat has been proven to release oxytocin, which lowers stress levels.
Cats purr for many more reasons than you would think. Some cats have a slightly different purr for when they're hungry, and mother cats also use their purr to communicate with their newly birthed kittens.
You should probably stop feeding your cat milk. It's common knowledge that cats are fans of milk, but many of them are actually lactose intolerant.
Cat brains are very similar to human brains. Physically, at least, their brains are about 90% similar to ours.
President Abraham Lincoln was a bit of a crazy cat lady. While he lived in the White House, he kept a number of pet cats, most famously Dixie and Tabby.
The first cat to take a trip to space was called Félicette. On October 18, 1963, a black & white "tuxedo" cat named C 341 was rocketed out into space, making world history.
If you think of yourself as a "cat person," you're among 11.5% of people in the world. On the other hand, "dog people" make up 45% of the world.
The record for the largest number of kittens in the same litter was 19. The record is held by a Burmese cat called Tarawood Antigone, who was just four years old at the time.
Over her lifetime, a cat can have more than 100 kittens. The average cat can have 1-8 kittens per litter and can have 2-3 litters per year.
The best "mouser" in the world was a cat called Towser. The long-haired tortoiseshell feline was born on April 21, 1963, and was owned by the Glenturret Distillery Ltd.
It is estimated that over the course of her life, she caught some 28,889 mice, averaging 3 mice per night.
A train station in Japan employs cats as stationmasters. The first in a line of stationmaster cats was Tama, a black, white, and orange calico cat who had taken up residence by Kishi Station in the Wakayama Prefecture.
Cute videos of cats have been around for more than 100 years. The first known film of cats was created in 1894 by Thomas Edison, the famous inventor of the electric light bulb.
The short film was titled "Boxing Cats" and was, unsurprisingly, a video of two cats boxing!
Many people are allergic to cats, but did you know that cats can actually be allergic to humans too?
Cats have been domesticated for over 4,000 years, but they were worshipped in ancient Egypt for thousands of years before that.
The ancient Egyptians worshipped a cat goddess named Bastet, who was the goddess of home, fertility, and childbirth.
Cats were so revered in ancient Egypt that killing a cat was considered a capital crime, punishable by death.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, the family would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
Cats have been known to survive falls from great heights due to their "righting reflex" and ability to spread their bodies to slow their descent.
Cats can rotate their ears 180 degrees and can hear sounds up to 64,000 Hz, which is much higher than humans can hear.
Cats have a third eyelid called a nictitating membrane that helps keep their eyes moist and protected.
Cats can't taste sweetness because they lack the taste receptors for it, but they can taste bitterness, sourness, saltiness, and umami.
Cats have a Jacobson's organ in the roof of their mouth that allows them to "taste" smells by opening their mouth and curling their upper lip.
Cats can make over 100 different vocal sounds, while dogs can only make about 10.
A cat's purr vibrates at a frequency that promotes bone healing, which is why cats often purr when they're injured or sick.
Cats spend about 70% of their lives sleeping, which means a 9-year-old cat has only been awake for about 3 years.
Cats can jump up to 6 times their body length in a single bound.
Cats have a unique way of walking called "direct registering" where they place their hind paws in the same spot as their front paws to minimize noise and visible tracks.
Cats have whiskers on their face, above their eyes, on their chin, and on the backs of their front legs.
Cats use their whiskers to determine if they can fit through a space - if their whiskers fit, their body will fit.
Cats have a tapetum lucidum, a reflective layer behind their retina that allows them to see better in low light conditions.
Cats can see in color, but not as vividly as humans. They see best in blue and green wavelengths.
Cats have a much wider field of vision than humans - about 200 degrees compared to humans' 180 degrees.
Cats have excellent night vision and can see in light that is 6 times dimmer than what humans need to see.
Cats have a unique way of drinking water - they curl their tongue backward and use it like a spoon to scoop up water.
Cats can run at speeds of up to 30 miles per hour over short distances.
Cats have a flexible spine that allows them to rotate their bodies 180 degrees while their head stays still.
Cats have retractable claws that they can extend and retract as needed for hunting, climbing, or self-defense.
Cats have a rough tongue covered in tiny, backward-facing spines called papillae that help them groom and remove meat from bones.
Cats have a much higher body temperature than humans - around 101-102.5°F (38.3-39.2°C).
Cats have a very efficient digestive system and can digest protein from meat very effectively.
Cats are obligate carnivores, which means they must eat meat to survive and cannot be vegetarian.
Cats have a very short digestive tract compared to other animals, which is why they need to eat frequently.
Cats can't produce certain amino acids that they need, so they must get them from their diet.
Cats have a very low thirst drive because they evolved to get most of their water from their prey.
Cats have a unique way of marking their territory by rubbing their face against objects, which leaves their scent behind.
Cats have scent glands on their face, paws, and tail that they use for marking territory and communication.
Cats have a very strong sense of smell - about 14 times stronger than humans.
Cats can detect pheromones and other chemical signals that humans cannot perceive.
Cats have a very good memory and can remember people, places, and events for years.
Cats can learn tricks and commands, but they prefer to do things on their own terms.
Cats are very independent animals and don't form the same kind of pack bonds that dogs do.
Cats are crepuscular, meaning they are most active during dawn and dusk.
Cats are very territorial and will defend their territory from other cats.
Cats have a very strong hunting instinct and will hunt even when they're not hungry.
Cats can be trained to use a litter box from a very young age.
Cats are very clean animals and spend a lot of time grooming themselves.
Cats can be trained to walk on a leash, but it takes patience and training.
Cats can be trained to do tricks like sit, stay, come, and even fetch.
Cats have a very good sense of balance and can walk on narrow ledges and jump from high places.
Cats have a very flexible body that allows them to squeeze through small spaces.
Cats have a very good sense of timing and can predict when their owners will return home.
Cats can recognize their owner's voice and will respond to it differently than other voices.
Cats can form strong bonds with their owners and other animals in the household.
Cats can be very affectionate and will show their love in many ways, including purring, kneading, and head-butting.
Cats can be very playful and will play with toys, other animals, and even their owners.
Cats can be very vocal and will meow, purr, hiss, growl, and make other sounds to communicate.
Cats can be very curious and will investigate new things in their environment.
Cats can be very stubborn and will often do things their own way.
Cats can be very intelligent and can solve problems and learn from experience.
Cats can be very sensitive to changes in their environment and routine.
Cats can be very loyal to their owners and will often follow them around the house.
Cats can be very protective of their owners and will defend them if they feel threatened.
Cats can be very social animals and will often form friendships with other cats and animals.
Cats can be very independent and will often prefer to be alone at times.
Cats can be very adaptable and can live in many different environments.
Cats can be very resilient and can survive in difficult conditions.
Cats can be very mysterious and will often do things that humans don't understand.
Cats can be very entertaining and will often provide hours of amusement for their owners.
Cats can be very therapeutic and can help reduce stress and anxiety in their owners.
Cats can be very healing and can help people recover from illness and injury.
Cats can be very spiritual and have been associated with magic and mysticism throughout history.
Cats can be very artistic and have inspired many works of art, literature, and music.
Cats can be very scientific and have been the subject of many scientific studies.
Cats can be very historical and have played important roles in many cultures throughout history.
Cats can be very cultural and have different meanings and significance in different societies.
Cats can be very global and are found in almost every country in the world.
Cats can be very diverse and come in many different breeds, colors, and personalities.
Cats can be very unique and each cat has its own individual personality and characteristics.
Cats can be very special and bring joy, love, and companionship to millions of people around the world.
Stubbs the cat was mayor of Talkeetna, Alaska for 20 years.
Cats spend a whopping 70% of their life asleep.
Cat whiskers are the same width as their body.
Feline purrs could improve bone density and promote healing.
Cats are the only mammals that can't taste sweet.
You can communicate with your cat by blinking.
Cats have been living with humans for at least 9,500 years.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
Cat tongues are covered with tiny barbs.
Cats can be clicker trained.
The world's fattest cat weighed 39.6 pounds.
The world is full of fat cats.
The longest cat ever was 48.5 inches long.
Félicette was the first and only cat in space.
The oldest cat ever was 38 years old.
Grumpy cat's real name is Tardar Sauce.
Blackie holds the record for richest cat.
Merlin the cat has the record for the loudest purr.
Cats can't focus on anything less than a foot in front of them.
Most cats have 18 toes.
Cats have whiskers in places other than their face.
Male cats are more likely to be left-pawed.
Your cat is faster than Usain Bolt.
Cats spend 30-40% of their day on grooming.
Cats have curved claws which prevents them from "climbing down".
Your cat can smell the air like a snake.
Female cats can become pregnant at only 4 months old!
Cats, camels, and giraffes all walk the same way.
Cats hate the smell of citrus.
Catnip doesn't affect cats until they're at least three months old.
Spaying and neutering can increase a cat's lifespan.
Cats use meowing to communicate with us not other cats.
Cats instinctually use the litter box.
Isaac Newton may have created the first cat door.
Cats place their back paw in the spot as their front paw when walking.
In just seven years, a pair of cats and their kittens could produce 420,000 kittens.
Chocolate isn't just bad for dogs, it's poisonous for cats too.
Cats have a special bone structure that allows them to be extra flexible and extra athletic.
Cats have trouble detecting slow movements.
Cats have 22 bones in their tail alone!
Cats can jump up to 9 times their height!
Ancient Egyptians shaved their eyebrows as a sign of mourning when their cats passed away.
Cats have a wider field of view than humans.
Cats are obligate carnivores.
There are 75 million cats in the United States.
A male cat is called a Tom.
Your cat is more than 95% tiger.
Cats have powerful night vision that's 6 to 8 times more powerful than humans.
A cat's normal body temperature is between 100.5 °F and 102.5°F.
Cats are crepuscular animals.
Disneyland is home to dozens of working cats.
On average, indoor cats live a lot longer than outdoor cats.
Didga the cat holds the record for most tricks in one minute.
Cats prefer their food body temperature.
Housecats are the only felines that can hold their tail vertically while walking.
Cats have 32 muscles in each outer ear - humans have 6.
Cats don't only purr when they're happy.
Cats rub you with their cheeks in order to "mark" you.
Cats can retract their front claws but not their back claws.
Cats can't see as many colors as humans can.
Most cats are lactose intolerant.
Beware the lilies if you have kitties.
Pretty poinsettias are poisonous to cats, too.
You can toilet train cats.
Many cats are intrigued by the smell of bleach.
Cats can drink seawater for hydration.
Every cat has a unique nose print like a fingerprint.
Kittens within the same litter can have different fathers.
You can use blinking to communicate with your cat.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats.
Kitty cams revealed that cats hunt even when they're not hungry.
Hissing is not an act of aggression - it's defensive.
The first known cat video was released in 1894.
There isn't just one reason why cats knead.
Cats can get an uncomfortable condition called whisker fatigue.
Female cats could be called a queen, Molly or dam.
Cats really do almost always land on their feet.
A group of kittens can go by many names.
The largest litter of kittens born to one cat is 19.
White cats with blue eyes are more likely to be deaf.
The health and wellness benefits of having a cat are scientifically established.
Cats have more nerve cells in the visual parts of their brain than most mammals including humans!
As a committed cat person, you're in the minority.
The first cat video on YouTube is called "Pajamas and Nick Drake".
Scooter the cat was the oldest cat to give birth at 30 years old.
Cats need taurine to survive.
Cats can hear ultrasonic noises.
Socks the presidential cat was the star of his own video game.
High pitched noises can cause seizures in older cats.
A cat's heart beats at twice the speed of a human.
Cats instinctually prefer smaller meals spread throughout the day.
Some cats love tuna so much they become "tuna junkies".
All kittens are born with blue eyes.
People allergies are a real thing for cats.
Cats have contributed to the extinction of 63 species.
Cats can sweat when they're hot.
Kittens start teething as early as 10 weeks.
Cats have an amazing ability to find their way home and scientists can't explain how they do it.
Black cats are the least likely to be adopted.
Ailurophobia is an unreasonable fear of cats.
Towser the mouser is the world's greatest mouser.
Male tortie cats are extremely rare.
The technical name for a hairball is called trichobezoar.
During a lifetime, the average cat spends an estimated 10,950 hours purring!
Cats can make more than 100 sounds to communicate.
Cats can possibly detect earthquakes before they happen.
Siamese cats can change color based on temperature.
The most popular cat names for female cats in the US are Bella, Lucy, Kitty, Chloe, and Sophie.
The most popular male cat names are Max, Oliver, Charlie, Tiger, and Smokey.
A cat's coloring is determined by a set of 8 different genes.
Cats don't actually have eyelashes.
A quivering cat tail is a good thing.
Cats can purr when exhaling or inhaling.
Ten percent of a cat's bones are in their tail.
Not all cats have "9 lives".
Cats can't move their jaw sideways.
The first cartoon cat was Felix Cat.
Eighty-one percent of orange cats are male.
That weird glow that you see in your cat's eyes is called eyeshine.
Cats can't taste sweetness.
Cats have a third eyelid called a nictitating membrane.
Cats have a Jacobson's organ that allows them to "taste" smells.
Cats can hear frequencies up to 64,000 Hz.
Cats have a tapetum lucidum that reflects light back through their retina.
Cats have a wider field of vision than humans - about 200 degrees.
Cats can see in light that is 6 times dimmer than what humans need.
Cats have a unique way of drinking water - they curl their tongue backward.
Cats can run at speeds of up to 30 miles per hour over short distances.
Cats have a flexible spine that allows them to rotate their bodies 180 degrees.
Cats have retractable claws that they can extend and retract as needed.
Cats have a rough tongue covered in tiny, backward-facing spines called papillae.
Cats have a much higher body temperature than humans - around 101-102.5°F.
Cats have a very efficient digestive system and can digest protein from meat very effectively.
Cats are obligate carnivores, which means they must eat meat to survive.
Cats have a very short digestive tract compared to other animals.
Cats can't produce certain amino acids that they need, so they must get them from their diet.
Cats have a very low thirst drive because they evolved to get most of their water from their prey.
Cats have a unique way of marking their territory by rubbing their face against objects.
Cats have scent glands on their face, paws, and tail that they use for marking territory.
Cats have a very strong sense of smell - about 14 times stronger than humans.
Cats can detect pheromones and other chemical signals that humans cannot perceive.
Cats have a very good memory and can remember people, places, and events for years.
Cats can learn tricks and commands, but they prefer to do things on their own terms.
Cats are very independent animals and don't form the same kind of pack bonds that dogs do.
Cats are crepuscular, meaning they are most active during dawn and dusk.
Cats are very territorial and will defend their territory from other cats.
Cats have a very strong hunting instinct and will hunt even when they're not hungry.
Cats can be trained to use a litter box from a very young age.
Cats are very clean animals and spend a lot of time grooming themselves.
Cats can be trained to walk on a leash, but it takes patience and training.
Cats can be trained to do tricks like sit, stay, come, and even fetch.
Cats have a very good sense of balance and can walk on narrow ledges and jump from high places.
Cats have a very flexible body that allows them to squeeze through small spaces.
Cats have a very good sense of timing and can predict when their owners will return home.
Cats can recognize their owner's voice and will respond to it differently than other voices.
Cats can form strong bonds with their owners and other animals in the household.
Cats can be very affectionate and will show their love in many ways.
Cats can be very playful and will play with toys, other animals, and even their owners.
Cats can be very vocal and will meow, purr, hiss, growl, and make other sounds to communicate.
Cats can be very curious and will investigate new things in their environment.
Cats can be very stubborn and will often do things their own way.
Cats can be very intelligent and can solve problems and learn from experience.
Cats can be very sensitive to changes in their environment and routine.
Cats can be very loyal to their owners and will often follow them around the house.
Cats can be very protective of their owners and will defend them if they feel threatened.
Cats can be very social animals and will often form friendships with other cats and animals.
Cats can be very independent and will often prefer to be alone at times.
Cats can be very adaptable and can live in many different environments.
Cats can be very resilient and can survive in difficult conditions.
Cats can be very mysterious and will often do things that humans don't understand.
Cats can be very entertaining and will often provide hours of amusement for their owners.
Cats can be very therapeutic and can help reduce stress and anxiety in their owners.
Cats can be very healing and can help people recover from illness and injury.
Cats can be very spiritual and have been associated with magic and mysticism throughout history.
Cats can be very artistic and have inspired many works of art, literature, and music.
Cats can be very scientific and have been the subject of many scientific studies.
Cats can be very historical and have played important roles in many cultures throughout history.
Cats can be very cultural and have different meanings and significance in different societies.
Cats can be very global and are found in almost every country in the world.
Cats can be very diverse and come in many different breeds, colors, and personalities.
Cats can be very unique and each cat has its own individual personality and characteristics.
Cats can be very special and bring joy, love, and companionship to millions of people around the world.
Male cats have nipples.
Florence Nightingale absolutely loved cats.
Many famous authors were also cat lovers.
Scarlett the cat was an amazing feline mom.
Nikola Tesla's cat may have inspired his interest in electricity.
The 99 Lives Cat Genome Sequencing Initiative is mapping the feline genome.
Just like humans, cats can dream.